Previously on Elementary...
I've done something new
to anger you.
You didn't mention
you were the target
of a failed
assassrnation attempt
which left a woman
named Sabine dead.
I was right.
Two years ago, he thought
I was behind his near-murder.
And now?
According to him,
I am a former suspect
and I am not at the center
of an elaborate revenge plot.
Sabine and I were...
very close.
The would-be assassin
has been dealt with.
Well, you're lying,
so I'll just have to investigate
the matter myself.
(wind howling)
(dramatic music playing)
(woman screaming)
(doorbell rings)
(gasps)
(French accent):
Hey, it's okay, Frosty.
WATSON:
Hi, I'm so sorry
to bother you,
but my car broke down up
the road and my phone died.
Oh, Mon Die Of all the nights.
I know.
Feel like an idiot. Do you think
I could use your phone
to call my friend
to come and pick me up?
Uh...
Of course. Come in.
Thank you.
You're a lifesaver.
Oh.
You're so cute.
Oh, this is Frosty.
I'm Soleil.
I'm, uh,
I'm Nicolette.
Uh, here.
The phone is in the study.
Uh, I'm not interrupting
anything, am I?
Only The Creature
from the Black Lagoon.
My favorite show
got preempted by hockey.
Uh, you want
a cup of tea?
Oh. That's so nice, thank you.
Yeah.
(light clattering)
(door opens)
SOLEIL:
Keep warm!
Thanks so much.
Bye!
(engine running)
"Nicolette"?
Everyone within
100 miles of Montreal
has a sew French name.
Would've been suspicious
if I didn't.
What'd you find?
Soleil is a dutiful daughter.
She's kept her mother's letters,
her will
and some other mementos.
Hopefully,
the answers lie within.
If not, I shall resort
to a sance
to interrogate
Sabine Raoult.
You can't be that sure
that your father's girlfriend
set him up.
She died in the attack.
Well, perhaps that's
a convenient outcome
_for_ whoever _
commISSIoned the crime.
(sighs)
(games beep, man screams)
(door rattles)
*
(grunts)
(speaking Chinese)
*
HOLMES:
Excuse me, excuse me.
Thank you, sorry. Thank you.
That's quite an audience today.
If it wasn't for
the lack of paparazzi,
I'd assume a reality TV
star got vivisected.
Three Chinese gangsters
got shotgunned.
So less fun.
These folks are nervous.
They're worried this could be
the beginning of a gang war.
What do you think?
I'd have a better idea
if I knew what
he was thinking.
That's Meng Zhou,
in the hat over there.
He's the head of
the Snake Eye Boys.
Second largest
Triad in the city.
It's his guys
on the ground in there.
And who is Mr. Meng
likely to blame?
Ghost Mountain.
Another Triad, just
came to the States.
They control a few blocks
near Columbus Park.
Beat cops say there's
been some friction.
We were afraid of
something like this.
(games beeping, whirring)
The arcade is co-owned
by the three victims.
Their rap sheets
are all over the map.
When they weren't
scamming credit cards
and insurance companies,
they were running
illegal drugs
and protection rackets.
Sound like big earners.
Yeah. That's why
retribution will probably be
fast and bloody.
We need to make a collar
on this ASAP,
or this whole neighborhood
could blow up.
So I count three blood spatters,
two victims, one knife.
The last guy managed
to get his switchblade out.
We think he got winged,
made it around the corner
before the killer
caught up with him.
I take it_ there were
no Witnesses?
Uh, we canvassed, talked
to a few people who heard shots,
looked out
their windows.
One couple
saw a jogger.
Someone else saw
a little old woman
hightailing it away
from the gunfire. That's it.
Well, there are
no surveillance cameras.
That's not surprising,
considering what this
place was used for.
Is this MDMA?
That's $25,000 worth.
They kept their stash
in a safe behind the counter.
So the killer
couldn't break the lock?
I don't think he touched it.
Whatever this was,
it wasn't a robbery.
HOLMES: Uh, I think it
might have been a betrayal.
Ambush by an ally.
What makes you say that?
There's sodium bicarbonate here,
lying in a pool
of dried expectoration.
The killer put a fizzy
pain reliever in his mouth
to fake a seizure.
To lure the victims to his aid.
They opened up, he opened fire.
They couldn't have been
fooled by a stranger?
This man put a 9 and a 1 in his
phone just before he was shot.
I don't think he would've
brought the police
and the paramedics
to his drug-slinging pit
if it wasn't for someone
he personally
cared for.
So the trigger man
was probably a Snake Eye,
same as the victims.
So he switched
allegiances
and now he's working
with Ghost Mountain?
Hard theory to test.
Like I said,
Ghost Mountain's new.
We don't have anyone plugged
into their drama.
There are other ways
to ascertain
whether Ghost Mountain has
cultivated a double agent
in their enemy's organization.
(speaking Chinese)
*
Mr. Xi, we are consultants
with the NYPD.
Do you have a minute?
(speaks Chinese)
Who are you looking for?
You.
Xi Hai Ching.
The so-called "489"
of the Ghost Mountain Triad.
Everyone on this block
pays you protection, Mr. Xi,
there's no sense denying it.
I do deny it.
There's no one
here named XI.
The department has been keeping
an eye on you since June.
We may not have all the
information we want about you,
but we do know
your name.
HOLMES:
Three members of
the Snake Eye Boys
were ambushed at
an arcade last night.
We suspect you paid one of their
fellows to double-cross them.
I am not leader
of Ghost Mountain.
I never hear of Ghost Mountain.
I only speak for myself.
Well, you'd be
wise to do so,
'cause as we see it,
no one stood to benefit more
from the carnage
at Mott Street than you.
WATSON:
We know from your file
you're very hands-on.
Maybe you watched the whole
thing go down last night?
I was with a woman friend
last nIght.
Her husband is out of town.
She's married,
so she won't be able
to back up your story.
XI:
She won't have to.
She got a call from hospital.
Her nephew.
He was beaten and mugged.
We went there to be with him.
Which one?
St. Bede's. Go there.
Ask them
if you don't believe me.
This is a dangerous
neighborhood.
The police cannot keep us safe.
If people have
to pay for protection,
maybe you should blame yourself.
I'll check his alibi
while you comb
through his cell phone.
You saw that lift?
You swapped it out
for a duplicate, right?
With malware and a dead battery.
Should give me enough time
to review his call history,
flesh out the Ghost Mountain
family tree.
With any luck, I should
find the Snake Eye mole
before he has time
to sound the alarm
and they all swap out
their burners.
(speaking Chinese)
Mmm.
(speaks Chinese)
(doorbell buzzing)
(lock clicks)
Wasn't aware you were back
on this side of the globe.
(door closes)
My business brings me
back to this city
more often than I'd like.
My son's behavior
brings me back
to this brownstone
more often than I'd like.
How have I offended now?
Why are you looking into Sabine?
What gave you the idea I am?
I was informed
by the woman you robbed.
Did you really think
that Soleil and I
would not still
be in contact?
That's precisely
what I'd assumed.
After the attack,
she could've blamed me
for her mother's death.
Instead, she prayed
for my recovery.
I owe her answers,
not more grief, so you can
imagine my frustration
when I heard that
her home had been violated
the same night
as she was visited
by a beautiful
but hapless Asian motorist.
Watson and I did not
travel to Quebec on a lark.
Then why did you go?
There's good reason to believe
that Sabine was a party
to the attempt on your life.
Oh, Sherlock...
Perhaps her participation
was unwitting,
perhaps you're just wrong
about her character.
Either way,
the shooter
was far too well-prepared
to strike when and where he did.
He rented a room
above the plaza,
disabled a traffic camera,
mapped his escape route...
All of those facts
are completely at odds
with your assertion
that Sabine chose the restaurant
on the spur of the moment
that evening.
It's impossible.
There is a vast gulf
between "impossible"
and "impossible to imagine."
No.
You've got everything backwards.
I am to blame for
what happened to her.
If we had never met,
she would still be alive today.
Someone I loved was annihilated
because of me.
Well, there's
an overdue sentiment.
To invoke your mother now...
You haven't changed.
I'm not going to stop
looking into Sabine.
She is the key.
Marcus. Hi.
Hey.
Two sugars.
The file you asked for.
I swung by the 14th
on my way in.
Ugh...
You're getting the better
end of this deal.
So Xi Hai Ching was lying
about where he was last night.
No, but I think the assault
he told you about
might be connected
to the three homicides.
Kevin Chang.
So he's the nephew
of Xi's mistress?
Mm-hmm.
Well, it looks like
he got jumped
just two blocks from the arcade.
Yeah, about five minutes after
the shots were fired there.
I get that it's a rough
neighborhood,
but that's a serious
comadence, no?
Keep flipping.
Someone hit him
with a blunt object.
Well, that looks
like it could be
from the stock of a shotgun,
couldn't it?
That's what I thought.
It's about the right size.
So maybe this wasn't
a mugging after all.
Kevin was in the wrong
place at the wrong time,
saw something he
shouldn't have.
The shooter spent all his ammo
blasting the Triad
and had to chase Kevin down
and tried to beat him to death.
Looks like he almost
finished the job.
Last notes say that the doctors
had to put him in a coma
until the swelling
in his brain subsides.
I doubt Kevin will
be able to give us
much of a description
if he wakes up.
But we can talk
to the people who found him.
Maybe they saw the perp
fleeing the scene.
I'll call Sherlock.
MAN:
Yeah, so I was
the third person
to come along
and see the whole mess.
People who found him were
these two homeless guys.
They, uh, didn't have a phone
and they were pretty drunk.
I was walking along
the block there,
and I heard him yell for help,
so I came on over.
What did you see?
Kevin.
That's his name, right?
Yeah, he was just
covered in blood.
Somebody really bashed him,
and he's babbling and...
Wait, he was
still conscious?
Kind of.
He wasn't making much sense.
Said an old lady did it.
What?
Someone who lives
above the arcade said
they saw an old
woman hurrying away
from the scene of the
shooting last night.
You think some little
old lady gunned down
three Chinese gangsters
and then caved Kevin Chang's
skull in with a shotgun?
HOLMES: Watson is correct
that the crimes were committed
by the same person.
But I don't think that person
was an elderly woman.
Might have looked like
an elderly woman, though.
(door opens)
(footsteps approach)
Have a seat.
What is this?
I will not be in the same
room with this man.
Since you both have
sworn up and down
that you're just
simple shopkeeps,
_I don't see the harm in
a little conversation. Do you?
We thought you
should know
that your gangs don't need
to go to war after all.
Mr. Meng, we're almost positive
Mr. Xi's organization
had nothing to do
with the arcade killings.
"Almost."
Yeah, it depends
on whether or not
there's any bak gwei in Ghost
Mountain or the Snake Eye Boys.
A white man? In a Triad?
That's what we thought.
BELL:
We found the murder weapon.
It was used to beat a man
named KeVIn Chang senseless
just two blocks
from the arcade.
That's your girlfriend's
nephew, right?
Well, uh, that's a
coincidence. Sort of.
Kevin, as you probably know,
is a suspected mugger himself.
Or at least he's a person
of interest in a few open cases.
Looks like last night
he made the mistake
of trying to rob
a killer on the run.
The beating he ended up
taking attracted attention,
so the shooter decided
to... ditch his stuff.
We found this mask
hidden in the same spot.
It's made _of silicone
and mortICIan's putty.
Usually the putty is used to
cover injuries on dead bodies,
but obviously it can be utilized
in mask-making as well.
There were several brown
Cauca5ian eyebrow hairs
stuck to the back.
The hairs are
a preliminary DNA match
for a half-chewed seltzer tablet
that we found at the arcade.
Captain, just what
are you saying?
look like an old Chinese woman
and faked a seizure.
That's why your guys dropped
their guard and came to his aid.
And were gunned down
for their trouble.
My condolences.
All right. Thank you.
Sounds like everybody's come
out of their bunkers.
Patrol cops in Chinatown
saw Ghost Mountain
and Snake Eye members
out and about last night.
Always great to get criminals
back out on the street.
Well, it's what we want.
This time.
No shots fired.
Looks like the peace
will hold,
unless the master of disguise
decides to strike again.
I assure you there's no such
thing as a master of disguise.
If there was,
I'd be one myself.
Of course
you would.
You scoff, but I did
drama at school.
I was quite adept
with prosthetics and wigs,
but I learned that
they have their limits.
A plan to infiltrate
a dining club
in the guise of a loathed rival
was a spectacular failure.
You think maybe this adult
killer is somehow
even more skilled _
than you were as a child?
I doubt it.
Let's say he was
to impersonate you.
Adopting your appearance
would not be enough.
He'd have to mimic your gait,
your vocal inflection,
your very scent.
I doubt even
the most skilled actor
with the most
sophisticated makeup
could pass for an imbecile's
distant acquaintance.
And yet, according to you, our
perp tricked three Triad members
into letting him
into their arcade.
He was seen at night
through a dirty window
whilst foaming at the mouth
and pretending to seize.
All of this contributed
to their ability
to pass for Bai May-Lung.
And who is
Bai May-Lung?
The Snake Eye Boys
called Bai "Grandmother."
Her deceased husband was
a Triad lieutenant.
He used his wife's hair salon
to launder money.
She just finished
a three-year bid
at A_|bion Correctional
SIX months ago.
Revered by the three victims
for her service
and unsuspecting in the extreme,
she's perfect.
I'm sold.
Why don't you two go have a
chat with her, see if she has
any idea who would have
wanted to impersonate her.
Respectfully, Mrs. Bai served
a prison sentence in her 705
rather than cooperate
with the state.
She won't talk to anyone
with a badge.
So I already dispatched
Watson to her home
at Willowbrook Assisted Living.
And, hopefully, that should
make things go more smoothly.
WOMAN: Get out.
I said get out.
Ma'am. Ma'am, the reason
I want to talk to you
about Snake Eye Triad...
(shouts in Chinese)
Okay, that's
not very nice.
Look, three of your
husband's old gang members
were shot to death
the other night.
Do you want that person
brought to justice or not?
They will be.
Your friend Meng Zhou
isn't so certain.
This wasn't
Triad business.
The killer was
a white man.
He got close
to the three victims
by disguising
himself as you.
(mutters in Chinese)
He made that.
He dressed like you.
Might not seem like much,
but it was enough to fool
the men that were killed.
You know who did it, don't you?
Two weeks ago, there was
a photographer here.
White man.
He say I need
Willowbrook ID.
He took pictures.
Then he want to know
about Snake Eye Boys.
Had you seen him before?
No. I go in bathroom to call
the front, "Get him out."
But I come back, he left.
Pervert stole
my laundry.
He took your clothes?
It was in a
basket there.
My nice jacket,
bras, everything.
What did he look like?
White man, brown hair.
Anything else?
No, I don't see good anymore.
White man, brown hair.
Still waiting to talk
to the administrator.
He's wrapping
up a meeting.
In the middle
of a heated negotiation
with a tapioca vendor, no doubt.
Can you imagine being
king of this castle?
I feel worse for the
residents who live here.
Not even Bai May-Lung deserves
to be preyed on by
these faux charities.
How can you doubt
the authenticity
of an organization
which has provided
at least one Ping-Pong table
to a middle school?
_Wherever there's _
an immigrant community,
_ there are these _
neighborhood organizations
funneling cash
into gangsters' pockets.
You think the Chinatown
Community Outreach
is a Triad creation?
They're trying to trick people
into leaving them money
when they die.
MAN:
Hey there.
Hi. Michael Haas.
Michael Haas.
My assistant gave me the gist.
Uh, you-you think we had a
killer in our midst, huh? Wow.
Yes "
, wow."
We're hoping that
the culprit might appear
on your security footage.
Um, I notice you don't have
any cameras in this hallway,
but the one
over by the front door,
that-that would be sufficient.
Actually, that's just
closed circuit.
It doesn't record.
At night, we have
a security guard at the desk.
He can see anyone who's coming,
buzz 'em in if it's all good.
But that's it.
So would-be murderers are only
free to roam the halls
and _harass _the residents
during busmess hours?
WATSON:
Ms. Bai said that her visitor
was a white man
who claimed to work here.
Maybe you could show us
where you keep your files.
It would be helpful for us
to look at employee records,
vendors with access.
I wish I could.
You are the boss, right?
Sure, but my people have
privacy rights.
Without a... a warrant, uh,
I wouldn't feel comfortable.
But, listen, it doesn't matter.
This guy doesn't work here.
I can tell you
that right now.
How?
We've got 25 people on staff.
Except for me,
everybody's either Jamaican,
Salvadoran or Chinese.
No white men.
Uh, that's just
the way it worked out.
We signed a visitor log
when we arrived.
Is there anything else the
killer would have had to provide
in order to gain access?
Sorry, I mean,
Willowbrook is not a prison.
But you can make a copy
of that log if you want.
HOLMES: Which dead gangster
do you want to start with?
Uh, Adam Tsai.
Looks like he might have
been the first one shot.
So who do you want,
Ray Mui or Gao Chung Pei?
Flip a coin.
Casting about
their criminal histories
for clues of
the killer's identity
seems a very,
very broad approach
for such a specific crime.
I don't see where else
we're gonna get traction.
I mean, we have that copy
of the Willowbrook visitor log,
but it's not like the guy
would have signed in
with his _real name
to see Bai May-Lung.
Plus half those signatures
are illegible scribbles.
What are you gonna do
with Soleil's hatbox over there?
Its contents proved
to be entirely useless,
so I'm returning it
to my father tomorrow.
He's in town?
Found out about what we did.
It would appear he's a much
more involved father
to the daughter he never had
than he was to either
of the two sons he did.
Soleil called him after
she discovered the theft.
He came to see me yesterday.
That could not have gone well.
He insisted Sabine Raoult died
because of him.
He took full responsibility.
Sounds like that bothered you.
We never talked
about my mother, did we?
No, I mean, I know
she died a long time ago.
But other than that, I...
So, anything about me
that you might find
interesting or amusing
or good,
you'd have found
a more pure distillation
of that in May Holmes.
Naturally, my father divorced
her when I was eight years old.
I knew that trouble was brewing
when Mycroft and I were
packed off to boarding school
a year ahead of schedule--
two in my case.
By the time we came home
for the holidays,
my mother was out on her ear.
Your father threw her out?
Prior to marriage, she signed
a prenuptial agreement.
My father was guaranteed
full custody.
She was guaranteed visitation,
a small amount
for liVing expenses.
She lived her last few months in
a modest flat in the East End.
So modest in fact that
it went up like a tinder box
when the neighbor's
water heater caught fire.
Yeah, pretty sure the smoke
would've got her
before the, uh...
So I didn't speak to my father
for two years after that.
You held him responsible.
I did.
You still do.
I'm sorry.
Just give me one second.
Of course.
I can work downstairs.
Oh, no, I don't mean, um...
Here.
Have a look at this.
The fourth entry
on the morning Bai was visited.
Take a look.
What am I looking at? It looks
like a bunch of scribbles.
Just because it_
doesn't say anything,
_ it doesn't mean _
it doesn't tell us anything.
An elite graphologist
can use a mere doodle
as the basis for a sample
in some instances,
so be an elite graphologist.
Okay.
If this is the killer,
I would say
he was left-handed.
Writes with a slanted baseline.
Yes.
Note the loops.
They might be arrhythmic.
They are.
Just like the ones you see here.
Sven Eklund.
The Good Samaritan
who called in the mugging.
The short white man
who committed the mugging.
Wrote down his contact details
for the police.
He's a mortician.
Hmm.
Who does frequent business
with Willowbrook
Assisted Living.
Their Family Resources page
calls his work
"incredibly lifelike."
Thanks to his skill
with mortician's putty,
no doubt.
MAN (over radio):
Team leader, this is Unit Four.
Neighbors haven't
seen our guy either.
You got any word from the cars
that rolled on his business?
Place was empty.
Listen, I want an ND car posted
at the end of this block.
This guy split, but...
you never know.
Maybe he'll come to his senses.
Copy that.
What do you got?
The guy's missing
four double-aught shells.
It's the same kind
used at the arcade.
I take it this is
where he made the mask.
Masks, plural.
You need to see this.
Now, I recognize Bai and Meng.
No idea on the other guy.
Me neither.
So, he could look like
any of these people.
Seems to be the idea.
There's paint on this table
in a few different
flesh tones.
Pretty sure he made
masks of all of them.
What the hell is this guy up to?
No clue.
But he may not be
finished killing people.
WATSON:
You slept.
Yes, I'm human.
It is required periodically.
Your phone woke me up.
It was Marcus.
Sven Eklund's wife
got a text from a burner phone.
"So sorry.
Leaving tomorrow.
I will call you when I'm safe."
So, a manhunt's underway
and he's gonna spend
a day in the city
before he flees?
Could be he's scrambling for a
way to get out of the country.
Or he hasn't finished
what he's doing.
Did his wife
happen to know
why he rained hell down
on three Triad members?
No.
But apparently he got
a terminal diagnosis recently.
Cardiomyopathy.
His heart's gonna be too big
to continue beating
within a year.
She thinks he snapped.
A mortician who can't come to
terms With his own mortality?
Eh.
Bai's mask was used
to get close to and execute
three gang members.
And then discarded.
A Meng mask would
suggest a fixation
with the Snake Eye Boys.
Perhaps he intends to use it
to commit more murders.
(knocking on table)
This man doesn't look like
he's a member of any Triad.
No, but maybe Sven
used a mask
to get into Willowbrook
to talk to Bai-May Lung.
I suppose if you are half-blind,
this man might appear Caucasian.
The captain's got Meng Zhou
coming into the station.
We're gonna warn him
that he might be in danger.
Maybe you could
go to Willowbrook,
see if I'm right
about that guy.
No.
You're quite sure
that's not the man
who took your clothes?
Are you going blind, too?
This man is not white.
What about this man?
Maybe.
Maybe his cousin.
The man who took my picture.
He had a big nose.
So him, except for the nose?
That's what I said.
We have no idea _
what this man is planning,
but we can figure it out
and stop him
if you work with us.
Three of your men
have already died.
For all we know,
more attacks could be coming.
You really don't
want to tell us
how Mr. Eklund is connected
to the Snake Eye Boys?
Never have I seen
this man before.
But this man.
This is Terry Perez.
And who's that?
He fixes machines
at the arcade for many years.
_ But last week
he did something very unusual.
Ray Mui, my friend--
one of the men who died.
He said that Terry came over
very late one night.
He-he looked strange.
His face.
Uh, they thought
maybe he on drugs.
He said nothing.
He just wave at
them to open up.
(chuckles)
But it was 1:00 am.
in the morning, huh?
So my friend said, "No, no.
You come back tomorrow."
So Terry leaves.
Next day they call him
and-and he said,
"You mistaken.
I was not there last night."
Must've been Sven.
When his Terry mask
didn't work,
he made one
that looked like Bai.
I told you everything I know.
Now, you find this man.
If Sven really did have to take
two passes at that arcade,
I guess your partner is right.
There's no such thing
as a master of disguise.
At least we now know
what those two masks were for.
(phone chimes)
That just leaves us the one
that looks like Meng.
What's up?
Sherlock says that Sven
did not wear a mask
when he went to see Bai.
Just made his nose
a little bigger.
But just in case
Sven is going for
the "less is more" approach
again,
Sherlock mocked up
a few alternate looks
for the Finest Message
you issued.
Okay, I'll get these
out to our people.
(beeps)
WOMAN:
Sir, your son is here.
He's not on the schedule.
Send him in.
Yes, sir.
Sabine's things.
You can return them to your
beloved step-acquaintance
with my apologies.
So, you've cleared Sabine?
There's ample evidence
in her letters
that her affection
for you is genume.
But there's nothing dispositive
one way or the other.
Only because you can't
prove a negative.
I could come much closer
ifI could have access
to her professional
e-mail accounts.
I know _she ran
your Paris office.
A review of her business _
correspondence should settle it.
And when you've finished,
come back and apologize.
That will be a cold day, indeed.
It's uncanny.
When I look at you,
I see your mother.
I hear her voice.
I am my mother's son.
You have more in common
than you realize.
What's that?
Something I dug
up last night
after our little talk.
Records of her stay
at the Lawford Center.
Did you really believe you're
the first addict in the family?
She had a problem.
I didn't understand it.
I only knew that
I loved her and...
and so I forced her to get help
as a precondition
of our marriage.
It worked.
We started our family.
Mycroft came along.
And then you.
When her sobriety
was finally punctured,
I sent the two of you
away to boarding school.
I urged her to return
to Lawford, she refused.
She thought she could
get well herself.
I told her it was a mistake.
Never have I been
so unhappy to be correct.
She begged me not to tell you.
And for decades, I obliged.
But no longer.
I wish I could say
that I cut her off
to help her, but I can't.
Enforcing
our prenuptial agreement
was the pettiest thing
I've ever done in my life.
I made the decision
out of anger.
And I shall
never forgive myself.
But enough is enough.
Well, you don't get
to decide that.
I do, Sherlock.
I have.
Now get out.
(door opens)
(beep)
Sherlock, I don't know
why you're not returning
my texts,
but Sven Eklund
is still out there,
and we could use your help.
So call me back.
If that was Sherlock,
you can tell him to relax.
We got Sven.
TSA and Port Authority Police
popped him at JFK
with a fake ID.
He had a putty nose
and a brown wig on.
Dead ringer for one of
the alternate looks we put up.
They're bringing him
in right now.
SVEN:
Yeah, that's right.
The last one,
he-he started to run
to the back of the arcade,
so I... you know,
I ran after him.
And he slipped and
I shot him in the chest.
Then I left.
All right, just so we've
got the rest of it clear:
You were almost to your car
and then Kevin Chang,
he came up to you
and demanded
your wallet?
Well, no, my purse, actually,
because, you know,
I was an old woman. (laughs)
I-I did feel a little bad
about how much I hit that guy,
but there was_
so much adrenaline.
You seem awfully pleased
with yourself.
I'd like to know why.
What was all this about?
Wh...
There's three fewer
bad guys in the world.
I'm sure you appreciate that.
WATSON:
What were you gonna do
with the other disguise
that looked like Meng Zhou?
What were you gonna use it for?
To get into
the arcade.
But then, you know, I realized
that those guys
saw him every day.
The mask wouldn't fool them,
so I made others.
BELL:
I don't believe you.
Come on, Sven,
don't get shy now.
I want to know
why you didn't run
the second you found out
we were looking for you.
You waited a day.
You sure you didn't stick around
to use that other mask?
We gonna find any more bodies
with your name on 'em?
No, no, you've got
the wrong idea.
GREGSON:
Then help us to understand.
Why did you do this?
Does it have something to do
with that scar on your arm?
Looks pretty fresh.
Maybe a few weeks old.
I hurt myself at work.
We use surgical scissors
when we do embalming.
I-I-I left some out,
I just turned right into them.
WATSON:
Looks more like
a knife wound to me.
You know, one of the men
at the arcade
who was killed, Ray Mui,
he had a switchblade
on him when he died.
It would've left
a mark like that.
He did that to you,
didn't he?
So did you finish
getting your revenge
at the arcade,
or was there more?
Uh...
I-I_ don't have
anything else to say.
GREGSON: _
You got a year to live
and you were proud
to sit there and tell us
every detail about
how you killed three guys.
So the only reason
I can imagine
you're not telling us why
is because there's
something you did.
Something you don't
want us to know about.
Get me a lavwer
or take me to jail.
I'm done talking.
GREGSON:
I hope that second bag of
chips is a little reward.
You did good work today.
I'm giving myself an "I"
for "Incomplete."
I hear you.
I'm pretty sure when Sven Eklund
goes to meet his maker,
he's gonna have to answer for
more than those three murders.
But...
tomorrow's another day.
Before you go...
I was right.
Sven was stabbed
on the 23rd of last month.
He was treated in the ER
at Hamilton Hospital.
The doctors there weren't buying
his scalpel story, either.
The blade that cut him
was double-edged.
So they filled out
a police report.
That definitely
could've been made
by a switchblade like Ray Mui's.
We would've caught it sooner,
but Sven wasn't gonna talk
or press charges,
so the report got lost
on the bottom of the pile.
How did you think to go
to the 14th Precinct?
They cover Hamilton
and it's the closest place
to the mortuary.
You think Snake Eye Boys
attacked him at his work?
Look at the intake time.
11:30 am.
We've got Sven's
work calendar.
He was doing an embalming
in the morning
and he was supposed to handle
a viewing at noon.
Why would a Triad
charge into a mortuary,
stab somebody their boss
doesn't even know?
That's what I'd like to know.
He lives.
Yeah. Sorry I've been
out of touch.
Had a few things to chew on.
Family matters.
You okay?
Yeah.
I'll be better with some work
to focus on.
So I understand from your...
many messages that Sven Eklund
has not confessed
to anyone's satisfaction
and that you believe
he was once knifed by various
and sundry Snake Eye Boys.
But he won't admit it,
which makes no sense.
Couldn't confess fast enough
until we asked him
about his motive.
Revenge was not enough?
Well, there's no question
he got revenge,
so why not crow about it?
He didn't seem_
to want to explain
why a Triad would
go into his business
and attack him
in the first place.
That's interesting.
Mmm.
So is this.
So the body that Sven was
working on that morning...
Brent Arrieta.
He had been a resident
at Willowbrook.
I imagine many of Sven's clients
come from that grim warehouse.
Yes, but it's strange.
The embalming process takes
a couple of hours, right?
According to these
phone records,
Sven took a break in the middle
of working on Arrieta
to call Michael Haas, the
administrator at Willowbrook.
Two hours later,
Sven is in the ER.
There's something there,
I just can't place it.
Course you can't.
'Cause you weren't with me
a_t Willowbrook
earlier this morning.
The Chinatown Community
Outreach posters
which so offended you
have been removed,
presumably at the request
of Mr. Haas.
But we'll have to exhume Mr.
Arrieta's body to know for sure.
(coughing)
Okay.
N-Now you really
have to tell me.
Why am I here?
Why-why are you making
me look at Mr. Arrieta?
Because...
we had to.
And we thought
it might help put you
in the proper
frame of mind.
I know it's dreadful,
but the stench
would be much worse
if Sven Eklund
hadn't embalmed the body.
What we wanted
to talk to you about
was why he stopped
midway through that process
to call you
and why,
just two hours later,
he's getting his arm stitched up
at Hamilton Hospital.
And why, the very next day,
he started
photographing faces
that would help him shoot up
a Chinese Triad.
Figuring out how
those three things connected
cost us a lot of sleep.
You see, we now know why
Sven was calling you.
Mr. Arrieta here is still
chock-full of muscle relaxant.
We know it was
the cause of death.
He died in his sleep.
No, he died of a massive
Carisoprodol overdose.
Probably administered
in his food.
Made it impossible
for him to breathe.
Suffocated in his armchair.
Sven would've realized that
when he went to insert
these eyelid caps.
Morticians use them
so the eyes don't open
during the viewing.
He would've seen Mr_. Arrieta's
enlarged pupils.
You see, that is one of
the classic signs
of a muscle relaxant overdose.
Don't pretend this is the first
time you've heard this.
Sven called you
to tell you what he'd found.
Little did he know you were the
one who poisoned Mr. Arrieta.
MICHAEL:
No!
Why would I? That's crazy.
Your first move
was to call the Snake Eye Boys.
They went and "explained"
to Mr. Eklund--
with the help
of Ray Mui's switchblade--
that he needed to keep
his mouth shut, which he did.
Oh, oh, so now I'm not
just the killer.
Now I can sic Chinese gangsters
on people?
WATSON:
Sure, you could.
You were their golden goose.
You gave yourself away
when you took
the posters down.
Chinatown Community Outreach.
We pulled the 501(c) paperwork.
That outfit was wholly owned
by the three men
that Sven shot Monday night.
About the only thing
we can't figure out
is why you were scamming
for those guys.
You get a cut, or did they
have something on you?
What guys? I don't even know
who you are talking about now.
BELL;
Ray MUI.
Gao Chung Pei. Adam Tsai.
They had you pressuring
the residents at Willowbrook
to donate to their fake charity.
You don't think
there's a paper trail?
I don't control who gives what
to what charity.
No. You're just
a voice in their ear.
And anyone who makes
the mistake of listening
and revising their estate
gets a complimentary trip
to Sven Eklund's slab.
We're done here.
BELL:
I don't think we are.
'Cause I'm pretty sure
that when we look at
all the recent deaths
at Willowbrook,
we're gonna find a pattern
of charitable giving
and dirt naps.
Can we please go outside? I...
I can't breathe in here.
(coughing)
I...
I want immunity.
I can testify.
Against who?
Those guys.
They have a boss.
Yes, of course. Meng Zhou.
Came to see you last night,
didn't he?
How...
how did you know that?
Meng Zhou was in our police
station earlier this morning.
He was pretty ticked
to find out about the scam
his dead buddies had been
running at Willowbrook.
Guess they never told him.
No.
They did.
He knew.
WATSON:
How do you know?
Did he say so when
he came to see you?
He didn't say anything,
he just... handed me a note.
BELL:
Something to
the effect of,
"Nothing stops"?
Maybe a numbered account
that was supposed
to replace the charity?
WATSON:
If you had just asked
Meng Zhou a question,
just one,
you would've heard his voice
and realized
it was Sven Eklund.
Sven has cardiomyopathy.
He's dying.
He got stabbed
and he got angry.
And he wanted to provide
for his family.
What's your excuse
for killing people?
Found something
in Sabine's e-mails.
A message which sealed her fate.
And nearly yours.
One _of her old friends from
univerSIty was in town.
Wanted to meet for a late drink.
Sabine told her where the two of
you would be dining that night.
There was no spur-
of-the-moment choice.
She'd already decided.
She always did have a way
of getting
what she wanted from me.
It doesn't prove
she was complicit.
No. In fact, she wasn't.
Unbeknownst to her,
her e-mails were being read
by a mercenary.
I had a friend take a look
at her account.
He discovered a worm
which was blind-copying her mail
and sending it
to a separate account
belonging to a man named
Ruslan Krasnov.
Who is he?
A killer of Chechen extraction.
Obviously, Ruslan is just
a trigger man.
He's not the architect of
the assassmation attempt.
Should be easy enough
to find his employer.
It would be,
if he wasn't already serving
_ a life sentence
in a supermax prison
just outside
St. Petersburg in Russia.
So if you want answers
from the horse's mouth...
I'll find a way.
Did you
give me this
just to be horrible?
Or... did you think
it would change anything?
It is helpful.
I'll give you that.
It gives me
incrementally more insight
into my own problem.
She's no less dead.
I'm no less an addict.
And you're no more a father.
I know what it's like.
To lose a great love.
It can change you,
force you to make bad decisions.
I've told you.
IfI could take back
the last 33 years...
I'm not talking about Mother.
These are dangerous times
for you.
So I'd tread carefully.
Captioning sponsored by
CBS
Captioned by
Media Access Group at WGBH
access.wgbh.org